The spear just got a huge nerf and a
huge buff in the newest Minecraft
snapshot. Here's what changed. Spears do
a lot of damage, allowing you to
three-shot a player in full protection
for Netherite when flying with
fireworks. But you could kill players
even faster because there's an
enchantment for the mace called breach,
which bypasses armor. And people quickly
figured out that if you held a breach
mace in your main hand and a spear in
your off hand, it would do the damage of
the spear while applying the mace's
breach, doubling the amount of damage
the spear did. You could also hold a
windbururst mace, which let you pogo
stick on enemies. Or if you stacked a
bunch of armor stands, you could wind
burst hundreds of thousands of blocks
into the air. But Mojang just fixed this
by making the enchantments in your main
hand not affect the spear. But Mojang
also gave the spear a huge buff because
the lunge enchantment takes 128
durability per lunge and was
incompatible with mending, meaning you'd
have to make a new spear pretty often.
But Mojang just changed this.